<br>
<h1 align="center">MICROPROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS </h1>
<p>Microprocessors and microcontrollers are two essential components in modern electronics. They are essentially the "brain" of many devices that we use every day, from computers and smartphones to cars and home appliances. They are both integrated circuits that are designed to perform specific functions. Microprocessors are typically used in devices that require complex calculations and data processing, while microcontrollers are often used in embedded systems that require a dedicated controller to manage specific tasks. In this sense, microcontrollers can be thought of as a subset of microprocessors. In this article, we will explore the differences between these two components, how they work, and their various applications in modern electronics.</p>
<h2> :sparkle: <em>Microprocessor</em> </h2>
<p>A microprocessor is an integrated circuit that contains the processing unit of a computer or other digital system. It is designed to perform arithmetic, logical, input/output (I/O) and other operations according to instructions stored in memory. Microprocessors are commonly found in personal computers, smartphones, tablets, and other electronic devices that require complex calculations and data processing.</p>
<h2> :sparkle: <em>Microcontroller</em> </h2>
<p>A microcontroller, on the other hand, is a type of microprocessor designed to control a specific task or set of tasks in an embedded system. It combines a microprocessor core, memory, and input/output interfaces on a single chip. Microcontrollers are often used in electronic devices that require real-time control, such as appliances, automobiles, medical devices, and industrial control systems. They are often programmed to perform a specific set of tasks, and are typically simpler and more cost-effective than using a separate microprocessor and supporting components.</p>
